you famously said when you were younger
there were five problems that you
thought were most important for you to
work on if you were 22 today what would
the five problems that you would think
about working on be well I think if
somebody is doing something that is
useful to the rest of society I think
that's a good thing like it doesn't have
to change the world like you know if you
make something that has high value to
people and frankly even if it's
something if it's like just a little
game or you know the some improvement in
photo-sharing or something if it does it
how does a small amount of good for a
large number of people that's I mean I
think that's that's fine like stuff
doesn't need to be change the world just
to be good but you know in terms of
things that I think are most likely to
affect the future of humanity I think AI
is probably the single biggest item in
the near term that's likely affect
humanity so it's very important that we
have the advent of AI in a good way but
that is something that if you if you
could look into the crystal ball and see
the future you would like you would like
that outcome because it is something
that could go could go wrong and as
we've talked about many times and so we
really need to make sure it goes right I
think AI work working on AI and making
sure it's great future that's that's the
most important thing I think right now
the most pressing item so then obviously
I think in to do with genetics if you
can actually solve genetic diseases if
you can prevent dementia or Alzheimer's
or something like that that most genetic
reprogramming that would be wonderful
so I think this genetics it might be the
sort of second most important item and I
think having a high bandwidth interface
to the brain like we're currently
bandwidth-limited we have a digital
tertiary self
in form of our email capabilities like
computers phones applications were
effectively superhuman but will
extremely bad with constraint in that
interface between the cortex and you
were sort of that the tertiary digital
form of yourself and helping solve that
bandwidth constraint would would be I
think very important for the future as
well
you